Omega: README
Last Update: July 2010

This is intended to be the 'last' flatfile convertor with the ability to
recognize and manipulate flatfiles for all four MUSH codebases.


FEATURE: Validation (Level 1)

Omega automatically recognizes and parses flatfiles for PennMUSH, TinyMUX,
TinyMUSH, and RhostMUSH.  This shows whether the elements of the flatfile are
present, in the proper order, and whether the flatfile is complete.  Locks are
also parsed and validated whether they appear in the object header or in
attribute values.  For TinyMUX, and TinyMUSH, it also validates that the
flatfile is not just a structure flatfile -- that all the attribute values are
present.

If anyone has ever asked you to look for the END OF DUMP line at the end of
the flatfile, this level of validation is better than that.

Notes: The list of attributes locks for RhostMUSH and TinyMUSH isn't
completely updated, but the lock parser works for the ones it does have.
The list just needs to be updated.  The lock parsers TinyMUSH, TinyMUX, and
RhostMUSH are the third generation/revision, and they are holding up well.
The lock parser for PennMUSH is on generation/revision earlier, and it needs
to be compared again to the recursive-descent lock parser in PennMUSH.


FEATURE: Validation (Level 2)

Omega can cross-reference dbrefs and attribute names, validate that all flags
are known.  It can also break down certain things and validate the pieces.
This is an open-ended area of work, and to a degree each server is already
performing much of this type of validation as well.

Currently, Omega is validating the dbrefs in the object header for all
four MUSH flavors. It is not validating dbrefs or attribute names in locks.
It is not validating dbref uniqueness or attribute name uniqueness.


FEATURE: Validation (Level 3)

It is possible to inspect softcode on attributes and develop some educated
guesses about how color is expressed, whether or not Unicode is used, use of
functions which may or may not be available on the servers that can consume
the flatfile. This level of validation is not yet performed for any MUSH
flavor.

FEATURE: Round-trip

Omega can consume and produce flatfiles for all for all four MUSH flavors. It
in each, it should produce exactly what it consumes.


FEATURE: Password reset

Omega can reset the password of #1 to 'potrzebie' for all four MUSH flavors.


FEATURE: Upgrades and Downgrades

Each MUSH flavor can usually support more than one type of flatfile.
Sometimes, the differences are minor, sometimes these differences are major.

Omega can upgrade PennMUSH from 'old' to 'new' style flatfiles.

Omega can upgrade or downgrade between TinyMUX flatfiles from TinyMUX 2.0
through TinyMUX 2.9.  It may also be able to accept TinyMUX 1.6, but
flatfiles from that era were more varied in the flatfile options.  Your 1.6
flatfile may use options which Omega doesn't expect.  It is best to run it
through TinyMUX 2.0 first.

Omega can upgrade or downgrade between TinyMUSH flatfiles from TinyMUSH 3.0p0
through 3.1p6.

Only one version of RhostMUSH flatfile is known.


FEATURE: Extraction

Extracting individual objects or clusters of objects from a flatfile is not
yet supported for any MUSH flavor.


FEATURE: Conversions

It will take time to cover all possible conversions, but here's a table which
summarizes the status of the different conversion paths:

             ---------------- To: -----------------------
From: ---    PennMUSH    TinyMUSH    TinyMUX    RhoshMUSH
PennMUSH        -        C,D,E,F        A         C,E,F
TinyMUSH        H           -           A           H
TinyMUX         B           H           -           H
RhostMUSH       H           H           H           -  

A: Fully functional.
B: Attribute re-numbering could be better.
C: Attribute numbers/names are not mapped correctly.
D: Object flags are not mapped correctly.
E: Attribute flags are not mapped correctly.
F: Powers are not mapped correctly.
H: Doesn't exist, yet.


FEATURE: Charset conversions

Currently, the only charset conversions in Omega are between TinyMUX 2.6 and
TinyMUX 2.7.  Latin-1 is assumed for everything else.  In general, PennMUSH
flatfile can be localized into other locales, but this is not yet supported.
